This implementation is pretty good for
the four colors that we have.
But what if instead of four colors
we had 10, or 100, or 1,000?
This solution just wouldn't scale.
Now, if you're familiar for how we render
these things on the web, you might
be tempted to have a color array and just
map over it to render a bunch of colors.
In Native development, you should never
use a map to display an array of items.
And this is due to performance.
Because basically the mobile
phone will render
every single thing that's on the screen.
So if you have an array of 100 colors,
it will try to render all of them.
And it will try to rerender all of them
whenever the component tree renders,
regardless of whether
the data has changed.
So in order to render lists,
we have special components in React Native
that you can use to display them.
And these are called FlatList and
SectionList.
So whenever you have an array of
data that you need to display,
you should probably be using one of these.
I refer to this documentation quite a lot.
So this is the React Native documentation
for FlatList and SectionList.
And on the right, it has all
the properties that there are available,
and same for SectionList.
I'm going to go through some of this in a
bit, but let's look at how it works first.
There's a lot of configuration options for
FlatList, but
at a minimum, you need to give it 3 props.
The data, which is the array of items
you want to loop over and render.
The renderItem function, which is
a property that you pass in a function
that tells the FlatList how to
render each individual item.
And then the keyExtractor,
which basically gets each item and
you have to return a unique index for
that item.
So you can go ahead and click on this if
you want to play around with it yourself.
But this is an example of FlatList
that I created on Expo Snack,
which usually appears here.
It doesn't at the moment.
So Expo Snack is basically like JSFiddle,
but for React Native,
which is pretty cool,
but it's a little bit-
>> You need to run it?
>> Busy, yeah, it's a little bit busy.
Yeah, okay, there we go.
So this actually renders on the web,
so you need to be wary of it.
It's not actually how it will
look on the phone sometimes.
If you want to display it on a device, you
can just press here and scan the QR code.
But I'm just gonna look at the web
one cuz I don't care for this one.
All right,
let's look at what it looks like.
I don't think I can make this smaller.
Well, hopefully you can see most of this.
Okay, right, so this is my app.
And the only thing I'm returning
from this app is a single FlatList,
which I've imported from React Native.
Now I've got a data which
is an array of foods.
These are just the names of the foods,
an array of strings.
And then for the keyExtractor,
it gets passed the item, which is whatever
this is, which could be an object.
And then I need to return what's
the key for that item is.
So this needs to be unique.
This actually also has the index.
So if your item doesn't have anything
unique, you can use the index,
as well as something in the item
to create something unique.
And then the main thing we
have here is the renderItem,
which is basically a function
that takes the data
element where data.item
is one of these elements.
So usually you actually end up
doing this and destructuring.
But it can be a little bit difficult to
read when you're first looking into it.
And here I've got a food component,
which basically just has a view and
a text that renders the food name.
And FlatList and SectionList
are actually very cool in that they
are completely optimized for the web.
If you have 1,000 elements in your array,
it actually only renders
the ones that your user can see.
Let's look at a SectionList
example as well.
All right, so
this is very similar to FlatList.
They've actually shared
some of the properties.
The difference here is that
we can add a section header
in between a bunch of the items.
So instead of data, notice that the
property we're using is called sections.
And the data element is an array of
objects where I've added a title.
It doesn't have to be called a title.
But the only key that
you really need is data.
So this has to be an array of objects
where one of the keys is called data and
the data is basically the content
that gets rendered in a section.
The keyExtractor works the same,
but notice that the keys
don't get extracted from this,
they get extracted from this.
So that the item that you get is,
for example, apples and broccoli and
not this entire object.
Then we have a renderItem, which works
exactly the same as in a FlatList.
And, finally, something that
we don't have in a FlatList,
we have a property called
the renderSectionHeader.
And this basically gets the section,
in this case, the whole section.
And we use this to display the title.
Now, SectionList has had these because
if you use it on the actual device,
the sections actually get sticky, so
they stay on the screen until
you parse the section, yes.
>> So the SectionList only
works with array of object?
>> Yes, yeah, so
they both need to have an array.
But for SectionList,
you have to have an array of objects.
So I've just listed some of
the properties that FlatList and
SectionList have that
I use most frequently.
So you might want to look into.
Firstly, we have
the ItemSeparatorComponent.
So this is, you can pass in either
a function or just the JSX components.
And it renders a custom
separator between your items.
So for example, if you have a line or
some kind of image or
something custom that you wanna render,
instead of adding it underneath each item,
you can use this ItemSeparatorComponent.
Then there's a ListEmptyComponent.
This is actually really cool because
if we did ListEmptyComponent,
and I'm just going to do
a text that says List Empty.
Cool, and now instead of foods,
if I pass in an empty array,
it will automatically
render ListEmptyComponent.
So this is really handy if you do
data fetching because you don't need
to worry about going, if this data is
empty, then render this, otherwise, this.
All you should do is just add
this ListEmptyComponent here.
Then there's a ListFooterComponent.
As you might imagine, this is something
that gets rendered at the very bottom of
your list,
regardless of how big the list is.
So I'm gonna add this back.
ListFooterComponent.
Cool, yep, so
this gets at the bottom of the list.
And then there's an equivalent
ListHeaderComponent,
Which, Gets rendered at
the top of the list.
Here we're actually seeing what
this FlatList would look like in
React Native web.
I'm gonna show you what this
looks like on my actual phone.
So I didn't add a SafeAreaView here,
which is not good of me.
I'm gonna add one quickly.
Yeah, so one thing to note
is that this scrolls, but
the list header and
list footer scroll with the content.
Whereas if I added a bit of
text outside of that list,
Yeah, then this bit doesn't scroll.
So this is something to bear in mind
cuz sometimes you might want to have
the header just one thing be sticky.
In this case,
you don't wanna use the list header.
Another property that you'll
probably not use everyday,
you'll definitely not use every time but
is good to know is the extraData property.
You can pass anything in there.
It can be just a single item or an array.
But basically, the FlatList only
gets rerendered if the data changes.
So if the renderItem function
that you have renders different
things based on something in your
environment that's not the data,
you'll have to put these
things in the extraData.
So that's something that might
save you some hours of debugging.
I wish someone had told me
before I spent hours on this.
Another thing,
I think someone asked this on the chat,
which is can you render
things horizontally?
And FlatList actually has a prop called
horizontal, which takes true or false.
And this renders the list
horizontally rather than vertically.
Another thing that's cool is that
it has a numColumns property,
I think I'll just do numColumns to 2.
Yeah, it just renders these in a column,
which is so
handy because on the web,
this is a huge hassle.
And you can pretty much make
this any amount of numbers.
And finally, onEndReached,
you can pass a callback here,
which will get fired when the user
has scrolled to the end of a list.
And this is handy if you're doing
data fetching here or pagination, so
you'll know when to paginate.
There's also attributes that let you
customize when this gets triggered,
how far in advance do you need to know.